IMAGE_MANAGEMENT_SUMMARY.md, before:

# Image Management System - Implementation Complete

**Date**: 2025-12-20  
**Commit**: `3d49e42`  
**Status**: ✅ DEPLOYED

## What Changed

### New Structure

```
items/
├── assets/
│   └── working-images/          # NEW: Source images (tracked in git)
│       ├── README.md            # Comprehensive workflow docs
│       ├── RG-0001-hero.jpeg    # Original photos
│       ├── RG-0002-hero.jpeg
│       ├── RG-0002-polarbear.jpeg
│       ├── RG-0002-titlepage.jpeg
│       ├── RG-0003-hero.jpeg
│       ├── RG-0004-chase-mark.png
│       ├── RG-0004-hero-all.png
│       ├── RG-0004-hero-detail.png
│       ├── RG-0004-mark.png
│       ├── RG-0005-hero.jpeg
│       ├── RG-0006-detail.png
│       └── RG-0006-hero.jpeg
│
├── RG-0001/                     # CLEANED: Only deployed files
│   ├── index.html
│   ├── hero.jpeg                # 2 images per folder
│   └── qr-code.png
│
└── RG-XXXX/
    ├── index.html
    ├── hero.{jpeg|png}          # Required
    └── qr-code.png              # Required
```

### Git Tracking Rules

**TRACKED** (committed to repo):
- ✅ `assets/working-images/*` - Original source images (12 files, 5.7MB)
- ✅ `RG-XXXX/hero.{jpeg|png}` - Final deployed images
- ✅ `RG-XXXX/qr-code.png` - Payment QR codes

**IGNORED** (in `.gitignore`):
- ❌ `/*-converted.{jpeg|png|webp}` - Processed by square-image-upload
- ❌ `/*.zip` - Archive files
- ❌ `/*-nobg.png`, `/*-label.png` - Temporary working files

### Cleanup Performed

**Removed duplicate/misplaced files (9 total):**
- `RG-0003/rg-0003-hero.jpg` → moved to working-images (renamed)
- `RG-0003/rg-0003-qr-code.png` → deleted (duplicate)
- `RG-0004/RG-0004-chase-mark.png` → moved to working-images
- `RG-0004/RG-0005-hero.jpeg` → moved to working-images
- `RG-0004/RG-0006-hero.jpeg` → moved to working-images
- `RG-0005/RG-0005-hero.jpeg` → deleted (duplicate)
- `RG-0005/hero.png` → deleted (duplicate)
- `RG-0005/rg-0005-hero.png` → deleted (duplicate)
- `RG-0005/rg-0005-qr-code.png` → deleted (duplicate)

**Standardized item folders:**
- All 6 item folders (RG-0001 through RG-0006) now have exactly 2 images
- Naming convention enforced: `hero.{jpeg|png}` + `qr-code.png`

## Image Workflow

### For New Items

**1. Add original to working-images:**
```bash
cp ~/Desktop/photo.jpeg assets/working-images/RG-XXXX-hero.jpeg
git add assets/working-images/RG-XXXX-hero.jpeg
git commit -m "Add RG-XXXX source image"
```

**2. Process with square-image-upload skill:**
- Removes background
- Creates `RG-XXXX-hero-converted.jpeg` in root (NOT committed)
- Uploads to Square catalog
- Optimizes for web

**3. Deploy to item folder:**
```bash
cp RG-XXXX-hero-converted.jpeg RG-XXXX/hero.jpeg
git add RG-XXXX/hero.jpeg
git commit -m "Add RG-XXXX processed hero image"
```

**4. Converted file cleanup (optional):**
```bash
rm RG-XXXX-hero-converted.jpeg  # Already ignored by git
```

### Why This Structure?

**Version Control Benefits:**
- Source images preserved (can regenerate if needed)
- Deployed images tracked (what users see)
- Temporary files excluded (no git bloat)

**Workflow Benefits:**
- Clear separation: originals vs processed vs deployed
- Easy rollback: recreate processed images from originals
- Clean root directory: no working files cluttering repo

**Storage Efficiency:**
- Original images: 5.7MB (12 files) - compressed source
- Deployed images: ~4.2MB (12 files) - optimized for web
- Ignored files: ~15MB (19 converted files) - not committed

## File Naming Conventions

### Working Images (assets/working-images/)

- `RG-XXXX-hero.{jpeg|png}` - Primary item photo (source)
- `RG-XXXX-detail.{jpeg|png}` - Close-up or alternate view
- `RG-XXXX-mark.png` - Maker's mark or signature
- `RG-XXXX-label.png` - Original labels or tags
- `RG-XXXX-{context}.{jpeg|png}` - Any contextual photos

### Item Folders (RG-XXXX/)

- `index.html` - Item card HTML (REQUIRED)
- `hero.{jpeg|png}` - Processed/deployed image (REQUIRED)
- `qr-code.png` - Square payment QR (REQUIRED)

### Root Level (Temporary - Not Tracked)

- `RG-XXXX-hero-converted.{jpeg|png}` - Output from square-image-upload
- Auto-cleaned or manually removed after deployment

## Documentation Updates

### Updated Files

1. **WARP.md** - Added "Image Management" section with:
   - Working images directory explanation
   - 3-step processing workflow
   - File naming conventions
   - Git tracking rules
   - Updated site structure diagram
   - Updated file organization best practices

2. **assets/working-images/README.md** - NEW comprehensive guide:
   - Directory purpose and workflow
   - File naming conventions
   - Git tracking rules
   - Image requirements (format, resolution, aspect ratio)
   - Storage size metrics
   - Related documentation links

3. **.gitignore** - Added patterns:
   - `/*-converted.jpeg`
   - `/*-converted.png`
   - `/*-converted.webp`
   - `/*.zip`
   - `/*-nobg.png`
   - `/*-label.png`
   - Explicit inclusion: `!RG-*/`, `!assets/`

## Statistics

### Before Cleanup
- Root level: 28 untracked image files (~15MB)
- Item folders: 2-5 images per folder (inconsistent)
- Working images: None organized

### After Cleanup
- Root level: 0 tracked images (clean)
- Item folders: Exactly 2 images per folder (standardized)
- Working images: 12 files (5.7MB) in `assets/working-images/`
- Ignored files: 19 `*-converted.*` files (not in git)

### Impact
- **Git history size**: +5.7MB (source images only)
- **Developer experience**: Clean root directory, clear workflow
- **Automation ready**: square-image-upload outputs to root (ignored)
- **Recovery capability**: Can regenerate all deployed images from source

## Related Systems

### square-image-upload Skill Integration

The skill workflow remains unchanged:
1. Input: `assets/working-images/RG-XXXX-hero.jpeg`
2. Output: `RG-XXXX-hero-converted.jpeg` (root, ignored)
3. Upload: To Square catalog
4. Manual: Copy converted → `RG-XXXX/hero.jpeg`

### GitHub Pages Deployment

No impact on live site:
- Item folders unchanged (still have hero + qr-code)
- `.gitignore` doesn't affect GitHub Pages build
- All deployed content intact

## Future Enhancements

### Potential Improvements

1. **Automated deployment script**:
   ```bash
   # Process and deploy in one command
   ~/skills/square-image-upload/deploy.sh RG-XXXX
   ```

2. **Image validation**:
   - Check hero.{jpeg|png} exists before allowing commit
   - Verify QR code is valid PNG

3. **Archive management**:
   - Move sold items to `_archive/` (preserving structure)
   - Keep working-images for posterity

4. **Bulk operations**:
   - Regenerate all deployed images from source
   - Batch process multiple items

## Verification

✅ All item folders standardized (2 images each)  
✅ Working images directory populated (12 files, 5.7MB)  
✅ .gitignore updated (excludes converted files)  
✅ WARP.md documented (workflow + structure)  
✅ README created for working-images  
✅ Git commit pushed to GitHub (3d49e42)  
✅ Working tree clean (no untracked files)

## Conclusion

Image management system successfully implemented. The repository now has:
- Clear separation of concerns (source → process → deploy)
- Version-controlled source images for recovery
- Clean working tree (no temporary files)
- Comprehensive documentation for workflow
- Integration with existing square-image-upload skill

**Status**: Production-ready ✅

Commit message:

Tidy repo docs, fix item pages, and migrate local skills out

IMAGE_MANAGEMENT_SUMMARY.md, after:

# Image Management System - Implementation Complete

**Date**: 2025-12-20  
**Commit**: `3d49e42`  
**Status**: Historical snapshot (not a live status dashboard)

> This document describes the December 2025 image-management migration state.  
> Use `./validate-item.sh` and `./audit-items.sh` for current repository status.

## What Changed

### New Structure

```
items/
├── assets/
│   └── working-images/          # NEW: Source images (tracked in git)
│       ├── README.md            # Comprehensive workflow docs
│       ├── RG-0001-hero.jpeg    # Original photos
│       ├── RG-0002-hero.jpeg
│       ├── RG-0002-polarbear.jpeg
│       ├── RG-0002-titlepage.jpeg
│       ├── RG-0003-hero.jpeg
│       ├── RG-0004-chase-mark.png
│       ├── RG-0004-hero-all.png
│       ├── RG-0004-hero-detail.png
│       ├── RG-0004-mark.png
│       ├── RG-0005-hero.jpeg
│       ├── RG-0006-detail.png
│       └── RG-0006-hero.jpeg
│
├── RG-0001/                     # CLEANED: Only deployed files
│   ├── index.html
│   ├── hero.jpeg                # 2 images per folder
│   └── qr-code.png
│
└── RG-XXXX/
    ├── index.html
    ├── hero.{jpeg|png}          # Required
    └── qr-code.png              # Required
```

### Git Tracking Rules

**TRACKED** (committed to repo):
- ✅ `assets/working-images/*` - Original source images (12 files, 5.7MB)
- ✅ `RG-XXXX/hero.{jpeg|png}` - Final deployed images
- ✅ `RG-XXXX/qr-code.png` - Payment QR codes

**IGNORED** (in `.gitignore`):
- ❌ `/*-converted.{jpeg|png|webp}` - Processed by square-image-upload
- ❌ `/*.zip` - Archive files
- ❌ `/*-nobg.png`, `/*-label.png` - Temporary working files

### Cleanup Performed

**Removed duplicate/misplaced files (9 total):**
- `RG-0003/rg-0003-hero.jpg` → moved to working-images (renamed)
- `RG-0003/rg-0003-qr-code.png` → deleted (duplicate)
- `RG-0004/RG-0004-chase-mark.png` → moved to working-images
- `RG-0004/RG-0005-hero.jpeg` → moved to working-images
- `RG-0004/RG-0006-hero.jpeg` → moved to working-images
- `RG-0005/RG-0005-hero.jpeg` → deleted (duplicate)
- `RG-0005/hero.png` → deleted (duplicate)
- `RG-0005/rg-0005-hero.png` → deleted (duplicate)
- `RG-0005/rg-0005-qr-code.png` → deleted (duplicate)

**Standardized item folders:**
- All 6 item folders (RG-0001 through RG-0006) now have exactly 2 images
- Naming convention enforced: `hero.{jpeg|png}` + `qr-code.png`

## Image Workflow

### For New Items

**1. Add original to working-images:**
```bash
cp ~/Desktop/photo.jpeg assets/working-images/RG-XXXX-hero.jpeg
git add assets/working-images/RG-XXXX-hero.jpeg
git commit -m "Add RG-XXXX source image"
```

**2. Process with square-image-upload skill:**
- Removes background
- Creates `RG-XXXX-hero-converted.jpeg` in root (NOT committed)
- Uploads to Square catalog
- Optimizes for web

**3. Deploy to item folder:**
```bash
cp RG-XXXX-hero-converted.jpeg RG-XXXX/hero.jpeg
git add RG-XXXX/hero.jpeg
git commit -m "Add RG-XXXX processed hero image"
```

**4. Converted file cleanup (optional):**
```bash
rm RG-XXXX-hero-converted.jpeg  # Already ignored by git
```

### Why This Structure?

**Version Control Benefits:**
- Source images preserved (can regenerate if needed)
- Deployed images tracked (what users see)
- Temporary files excluded (no git bloat)

**Workflow Benefits:**
- Clear separation: originals vs processed vs deployed
- Easy rollback: recreate processed images from originals
- Clean root directory: no working files cluttering repo

**Storage Efficiency:**
- Original images: 5.7MB (12 files) - compressed source
- Deployed images: ~4.2MB (12 files) - optimized for web
- Ignored files: ~15MB (19 converted files) - not committed

## File Naming Conventions

### Working Images (assets/working-images/)

- `RG-XXXX-hero.{jpeg|png}` - Primary item photo (source)
- `RG-XXXX-detail.{jpeg|png}` - Close-up or alternate view
- `RG-XXXX-mark.png` - Maker's mark or signature
- `RG-XXXX-label.png` - Original labels or tags
- `RG-XXXX-{context}.{jpeg|png}` - Any contextual photos

### Item Folders (RG-XXXX/)

- `index.html` - Item card HTML (REQUIRED)
- `hero.{jpeg|png}` - Processed/deployed image (REQUIRED)
- `qr-code.png` - Square payment QR (REQUIRED)

### Root Level (Temporary - Not Tracked)

- `RG-XXXX-hero-converted.{jpeg|png}` - Output from square-image-upload
- Auto-cleaned or manually removed after deployment

## Documentation Updates

### Updated Files

1. **WARP.md** - Added "Image Management" section with:
   - Working images directory explanation
   - 3-step processing workflow
   - File naming conventions
   - Git tracking rules
   - Updated site structure diagram
   - Updated file organization best practices

2. **assets/working-images/README.md** - NEW comprehensive guide:
   - Directory purpose and workflow
   - File naming conventions
   - Git tracking rules
   - Image requirements (format, resolution, aspect ratio)
   - Storage size metrics
   - Related documentation links

3. **.gitignore** - Added patterns:
   - `/*-converted.jpeg`
   - `/*-converted.png`
   - `/*-converted.webp`
   - `/*.zip`
   - `/*-nobg.png`
   - `/*-label.png`
   - Explicit inclusion: `!RG-*/`, `!assets/`

## Statistics

### Before Cleanup
- Root level: 28 untracked image files (~15MB)
- Item folders: 2-5 images per folder (inconsistent)
- Working images: None organized

### After Cleanup
- Root level: 0 tracked images (clean)
- Item folders: Exactly 2 images per folder (standardized)
- Working images: 12 files (5.7MB) in `assets/working-images/`
- Ignored files: 19 `*-converted.*` files (not in git)

### Impact
- **Git history size**: +5.7MB (source images only)
- **Developer experience**: Clean root directory, clear workflow
- **Automation ready**: square-image-upload outputs to root (ignored)
- **Recovery capability**: Can regenerate all deployed images from source

## Related Systems

### square-image-upload Skill Integration

The skill workflow remains unchanged:
1. Input: `assets/working-images/RG-XXXX-hero.jpeg`
2. Output: `RG-XXXX-hero-converted.jpeg` (root, ignored)
3. Upload: To Square catalog
4. Manual: Copy converted → `RG-XXXX/hero.jpeg`

### GitHub Pages Deployment

No impact on live site:
- Item folders unchanged (still have hero + qr-code)
- `.gitignore` doesn't affect GitHub Pages build
- All deployed content intact

## Future Enhancements

### Potential Improvements

1. **Automated deployment script**:
   ```bash
   # Process and deploy in one command
   # from https://github.com/richmondgeneral/skills
   square-image-upload/deploy.sh RG-XXXX
   ```

2. **Image validation**:
   - Check hero.{jpeg|png} exists before allowing commit
   - Verify QR code is valid PNG

3. **Archive management**:
   - Move sold items to `_archive/` (preserving structure)
   - Keep working-images for posterity

4. **Bulk operations**:
   - Regenerate all deployed images from source
   - Batch process multiple items

## Verification

✅ All item folders standardized (2 images each)  
✅ Working images directory populated (12 files, 5.7MB)  
✅ .gitignore updated (excludes converted files)  
✅ WARP.md documented (workflow + structure)  
✅ README created for working-images  
✅ Git commit pushed to GitHub (3d49e42)  
✅ Working tree clean (no untracked files)

## Conclusion

Image management system successfully implemented. The repository now has:
- Clear separation of concerns (source → process → deploy)
- Version-controlled source images for recovery
- Clean working tree (no temporary files)
- Comprehensive documentation for workflow
- Integration with existing square-image-upload skill

**Status**: Production-ready ✅
